---
title: Plot
description: Any plot-relevant background information, and a summary of the plot of the adventure.
header_nav: True
---

In this section you'll find a summary of the plot for the adventure, as well as the the necessary history (or "lore") that will setup the story context.
You might want to cross-reference names and factions with those that appear in the [corresponding section](./characters.md), or use the [appendix](./appendix/appendix-character-summary.md) as a quick reference.

## Plot Synopsis

## Background

Whilst the town of Halfyord has a long and storied history, the plot-relevant events begin approximately 2 years into the past from when the adventure starts.

### event 1

### event 2

### The Present Day

## Timeline

A summary of important events that lead up to the present day.

- Ancient times (outside of living mortal memory): the original settlers arrive in the area, starting a small farming community in the local region. The events of the [legend of Trawidok](FIXME) take place, which marks the start of the community's bond with the local area and its equine-based customs. The legend of Trawidok continues to be passed down by word of mouth by members of the village, and the custom of coming of age by finding an equine partner transitions into a coming-of-age rite for the community. Over time the legend becomes precisely that, with only the more superstitious villagers putting any faith in the pact with the [woodland spirit](FIXME link to horse rescuer).
- ~300 years ago: Trawidok becomes caught up in a wider-reaching war, and many of the villagers are raised as levys for the army due to their knack for horsemanship. Their prowess eventually leads to the founding of a professional cavalry regiment, and their distinction in battle motivates the construction of the statue and plaque in the village square. Over time, the regiment's association with the origins of its original rank-and-file, and the source of its troops, wanes until it looses association in all but name.
- 40 years ago: The death of a village member with no immediate heirs causes their land to be inherited by FIXME-bad-raceground-owner-father. With a personal passion for horse-racing, they set about constructing the racing grounds and boarding house on the land they inherited, doing away with the farmland that occupied it previously.
- 38 years ago: The race-course opens, hiring local village residents to take on the role of horse-breeders, trainers, and tamers. This causes friction within the community, as the younger generation are enticed by the prospect of better pay and the social opportunities that come from interacting with the upper class, and begin to move away from the more traditional farming and hunting roots of the community. The use of horses for sport, and the ethics of breeding racehorses, flies in the face of the village's core ideals of horses being partners. This results in a sharp decline in the popularity of the coming of age rite, with far fewer villagers now undergoing the trip into the woods and returning with a horse-partner as they would have done in the past.
- 30 years ago: The popularity of the racecourse, and quality of the horses that are bred at the attached stables, warrants the building of the boarding house so that grander racing events and showcases can be held. This increases the amount of upper-class foot-traffic to Trawidok, but most of it goes into the pocket of FIXME-racecourse-owner-father rather than the original community.
- 26 years ago: FIXME-racecourse-owner-father dies, leaving the racecourse and his estate to his son, FIXME-racecourse-owner. More driven than his father to increase both social status, personal wealth, and fame, he uses the racecourse as a means to these ends. As such, the racecourse quickly transitions to more of a business, rather than a passion-project of a wealthy citizen, marking a tonal shift in the way the events and horses are treated.
- 5 years ago: Tensions reach a head between the more traditional villagers, and those that make a living due to the presence of the racecourse, when a son inherits his father's farm and offers to convert it into an expansion for the race-course. The "traditionalists" - mostly the older and more nature-friendly villagers - argue that the racecourse is destroying their way of life, whilst FIXME-racecourse-owner argues that the racecourse is the only thing that gives Trawidok any significance in the local region.
- 4.5 years ago: FIXME-traditional-elder and a group of traditionalist conspirators break into the racecourse stables and manage to release 3 prize horses before they are discovered. The horses are not recovered, but the conspirators are arrested and put on trial at the behest of FIXME-racecourse owner and the nobility who have suffered losses due to the escaped horses. The trial is short and one-sided, though FIXME-traditional-elder uses it as a platform to highlight how Trawidok has forsaken the ancient pact that the founders made. Though villagers in both the traditionalist and racecourse-dependent groups sympathise with his motivations, FIXME-racecourse-owner and the upper class are unmoved and FIXME-traditional-elder is sentenced to hang. FIXME-traditional-elder-child inherits his land, choosing to honour their father's wishes and continue to farm.
- 4.5 years ago: The escaped horses return to the woods, where the woodland spirit quickly learns - through them - of how life in the village has changed. It views the racecourse as exploitative, and those villagers involved as breaking their pact. The wild horses in the region become more evasive of the villagers again.
- 1 year ago: FIXME-traditional-elder-child undertakes the traditional rite of passage. Sensing their motivations are genuine, and the woodland spirit allows them to find FIXME-horse-name as a partner and bring them back to the village. Unbeknownst to FIXME-traditionalist-elder-child, the woodland spirit maintains their connection to FIXME-horse-name, allowing it to slowly reconnect with the racecourse horses through proximity.
- 2 weeks ago: Another mass escape occurs at the racecourse stables, with 5 horses escaping into the woods. There is no clear saboteur nor culprit, though FIXME-racecourse-owner baselessly points the blame at the traditionalists, reigniting tensions. They issue a large bounty on the culprits, and for the return of the missing horses.
- 1 week ago: Another 3 horses escape the racecourse during a derby, throwing their jockeys from the saddle and making a break for the woods. There is no chance of a pursuit, but the event is witnessed by noble attendants at the race. FIXME-racecourse-owner starts feeling the pressure from his customers to both recover their property and reassure them of the integrity of his business. The remaining racecourse horses are stabled and put under near-constant attendance, and races are suspended for the time being.
- 3 days ago: A trade caravan passing through the area stops over in Trawidok to change horses, hiring one of the racecourse horses as a replacement and being pleasantly surprised that FIXME-racecourse-owner insists on them taking guards with them, nominally to make sure the journey is safe but in practice the main concern is that the horse returns. FIXME-racecourse-owner also gives them a bounty poster to hang up in Halfyord, and a letter for [the governor](FIXME-kamonas link) to advertise it.
- 2 days ago: After about a day's ride from Trawidok, along the road that runs alongside the Hal towards Halfyord, the caravan comes across a fallen log in the road. Whilst the caravan is stopped to remove the obstacle, the horses get restless. A pack of wolves soon emerges from the brush, and in the panic that ensues the racehorse takes off into the woods whilst the caravan guards are distracted. The caravan spends a paranoid night camping on the road, before resuming their journey the following day. The guards sent by FIXME-racecourse-owner leave the caravan and return to Trawidok to inform them of events.
- 1 day ago: The caravan arrives in Halfyord, and the story of their journey spreads throughout the town. [Captain Shufharz and Governor Kamonas](FIXME links), knowing of a resourceful band of adventurers currently residing in town, decide to forward the offer of work to them.
